Arithmetic-geometric mean inequality on the rational numbers (#1406)
UniMath/agda-unimath: src/elementary-number-theory/inequality-arithmetic-geometric-means-integers.lagda.md

Reviewer: This inequality is number 38 on Freek Wiedijk's list of 100 theorems! Could you add yourself to our file `literature.100-theorems` with the appropriate backlinks?

# Inequality of arithmetic and geometric means on the integers

```agda
{-# OPTIONS --lossy-unification #-}

module elementary-number-theory.inequality-arithmetic-geometric-means-integers where
```

<details><summary>Imports</summary>

```agda
open import elementary-number-theory.addition-integers
open import elementary-number-theory.difference-integers
open import elementary-number-theory.inequality-integers
open import elementary-number-theory.integers
open import elementary-number-theory.multiplication-integers
open import elementary-number-theory.nonnegative-integers
open import elementary-number-theory.squares-integers

open import foundation.action-on-identifications-functions
open import foundation.identity-types
open import foundation.transport-along-identifications
```

</details>

## Idea

The
{{#concept "arithmetic mean-geometric mean inequality" WD="AM-GM inequality" WDID=Q841170}}

> states that $\sqrt{xy} \leq \frac{x + y}{2}$. We cannot take square roots on
> integers, but we can prove the equivalent inequality that $4xy \leq (x + y)^2$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
states that $\sqrt{xy} \leq \frac{x + y}{2}$. We cannot take arbitrary square roots in
integers, but we can prove the equivalent inequality that $4xy \leq (x + y)^2$.
```

## Proof

```agda
abstract

>   leq-gm-am-ℤ :

Reviewer: One of the following names seems most appropriate for this entry

```suggestion
  arithmetic-mean-geometric-mean-inequality-ℤ :
```

```suggestion
  leq-arithmetic-mean-geometric-mean-ℤ :
```
